so this is my usual thing where I
compare the lengths and physical
characteristics of a bunch of graphics
cards so our featured is your today is
the gtx 590 from nvidia this is a dual
GF 110 card it is so it's sli on a card
we've seen dual GPU cards quite a few
times in the past now now these are
fully featured GF 1 times these are
exactly the same GPUs that you find on a
gtx 580 so one of these so you might ask
well habit Nvidia managed to put two of
those on one card and the answer is that
they are actually down clocked well
first of all they're binned very
carefully for the best possible graphics
cards are the chips to put on it and
then second they are actually down
clocked so they do have less performance
than a single gtx 580 but they more than
make up for it by having two of them ok
so this video card has an 80 millimeter
fan in the middle it has heat sinks on
either side for each of the GPUs it has
three DVI outputs with one mini
DisplayPort so those three DVI outputs
this is another unique thing about this
card allow it to support 3d vision
surround or just plain surround off a
single card that is 3d displays over DVI
so that's pretty cool it does support
quad sli because it has one SLI finger
and it needs two PCIe a pin power
connector so let's just contrast it
against these other cards in terms of
length it is an 11 inch card so I'll
just show you guys that there you go
it's an 11 inch cart so you compare that
to the radeon HD 6990 which is a
one-foot that is a 12 inch card and to
the gtx 580 which is only a 10 and a
half inch card now the 69 whoops I'm
going to wreck my tablecloth here the 69
70 is almost 11 inches and then if we go
all the way down into kind of the
mainstream cards then we end up with a
gtx 560ti and
nine inch card so just for contrast you
can look at what it would take to fit a
gtx 590 in your case versus a gtx 560ti
to the mainstream single GPU card now
there are other considerations to bear
in mind as well this van needs to have a
fair amount of clearance around it
because with two Fermi's in there
there's a fair bit of heat being
generated so you need to make sure it
has adequate ventilation and yeah that's
pretty much where I was going with that
you got to make sure it has adequate
ventilation you also need to make sure
your case has overall adequate air flow
in it because half of the heat is going
to be exhausted directly into your case
out this side and then a fairly
substantial amount of it is going to
come out into your case this way and
then the rest will be exhausted so this
is going to kick a fair amount of heat
into your case and you got to make sure
you have lots of fans to keep things
cool thank you for checking out my video
on the physical size and characteristics
of the gtx 590 dual GPU graphics card
from nvidia don't forget to subscribe to
Linus tech tips from Iran boxing's
review than other computer videos